# LungImageSegmentation

Lung Pathologic conditions represent a worldwide major concern. Among them, infiltrative lung diseases include more than 200 phenotypes manifesting as progressive lung function decay. Such degradation is a continuous and irreversible process, which requires quantitative follow-up of patients to assess the pathologic condition occurrence and extent in the lung. Computed Tomography (CT) remains the main imaging technique involved in the quantitative assessment of the lung texture. As part of lung texture investigation, lung segmentation represents the first step, to ensure a correct focus on the target zones. Whereas lung segmentation on CT images of healthy subjects is relatively an easy task, when peripheral dense pathologic conditions occur, such as fibrosis (in idiopathic interstitial pneumonia -IIP) or consolidations (in COVID-19 or Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome - ARDS), the lung region becomes difficult to differentiate from the surrounding dense tissue, and classic image processing algorithms fail to correctly delineate the lung areas. The objective of this project is to develop a robust lung segmentation method, irrespective of the type of pathologic condition, relying on machine  learning approaches and in particular on convolutional neural networks (CNN). We target here UNet-based architectures for the CNN model together with a supervised learning strategy, which relies on lung pathologic occurrence simulations “altering” the healthy original CT data for which lung labels are available.
